we begin with the news that Israel's
military is said a temporary pause in
the fighting in Gaza will be extended
for a 7th day as International mediators
try to negotiate the release of more
hostages the truce was due to end an
hour ago at 7:00 local time however on
Wednesday the sixth day of the deal 16
hostages were freed from captivity in
Gaza they included two Russians 10
Israeli citizens and four Tha hos
who were all handed over to the Red
Cross their release was delayed by what
Hamas called logistical issues on
Wednesday 30 Palestinian women and
teenage boys were freed from Israeli
prisons in exchange for the
hostages this as US Secretary of State
Anthony blinken touched down in Tel Aviv
for more talks aimed at extending the
temperat trce and increasing
humanitarian Aid into Gaza here our
middle EAS correspondent Hugo
Bea the ceasefire in Gaza continues
Israel and Hamas have agreed to extend a
temporary pausing hostilities the news
came just minutes before the deal was
set to expire this morning last night 16
more hostages were freed by Hamas
including 13-year-old Gali and Amit 16
in return 30 Palestinians were released
from Israeli jails
but the latest swap was overshadowed by
a claim by Hamas that the youngest
hostage 10-month-old baby CFI his
brother Ariel and mother Shiri had been
killed by an Israeli air strike in Gaza
Israel says It's a cruel claim and that
it's investigating their father yarden
is still
missing Israel's war cabinet gathered
late last night US Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin are arrived in t Aviv
for the third time since the war started
to discuss an extension to the truth and
more Aid to Gaza in the occupied West
Bank violence continued an 8-year-old
boy and a teenager aged 14 was shot dead
as the Israeli Army withdrew from a
military operation in janin refugee camp
the Army said it used missiles grenades
and explosives killing a senior
Commander for Islamic
Jihad in Gaza the humanitarian crisis
continues the UN says more aid needs to
get in and that disease is a real threat
the ceasefire continues for another day
but Palestinians wonder how long it will
last Hugo Bea reporting there he's in
Jerusalem for us I'll be speaking to him
shortly but first let's go live to
Southern Gaza to talk to Thomas White
who's director of uh
unrwa affair Affairs which for those who
are unaware is the United Nations relief
and works Agency for Palestinian
refugees thank you for being on the
program so I presume uh you were
relieved to hear today that we have
another another pause another 24 hours
in the pause of
hostilities well it's certainly uh good
news for the people of Gaza um it's
another day where there's a rest bite
from the fighting that's taken too many
lives uh and destroyed too many homes of
people here in Gaza so certainly
uh people are pleased that they have
another day of relative quiet here in
Gaza just talk us through the logistics
for you as an organization of course
you're appealing for donations for help
for the the huge need we're seeing on
our screens on a day-to-day basis you're
in Rafa based in Rafa what are the
challenges you're
facing well essentially unua and other
un agencies uh and humanitarian
organizations have been overwhelmed uh
by the sheer um scale of displacement
into Southern Gaza uh the infrastructure
the water infrastructure for example is
totally overwhelmed with the number of
people who are now in the South uh
there's just not enough places for
people to shelter uh in the unua schools
which have been set up as temporary
shelters for people we had plans that
they would accommodate about 1500 people
per shelter uh we're averaging over6
th000 people in our shelters in the
South uh as you can imagine uh the
ability of those uh buildings and our
staff to serve those people uh is just
very very difficult to give you an
example uh we're averaging um 125 people
using one toilet so basic things like
sanitation uh in these shelters are is
very difficult uh people are jammed into
very congested uh classrooms uh in the
evenings
and the reality is now where at one of
our schools uh We've now had an outbreak
of hepatitis A so we the the risk of
disease uh is very present uh in uh in
Gaza at the present time in terms of the
humanitarian Aid that's been able to
come into Gaza since uh the truce began
what difference has that
made there's been a moderate increase uh
of Aid into Gaza through the Rafa
Crossing um the pause has also enabled
us to get much needed humanitarian Aid
to communities who are still in the
north uh but the reality is it's not
even close to what we need and just to
give you an example I was at one of our
shelters in Han unus uh yesterday uh
people are are living off you know one
or two rounds of Arabic bread every day
and on every second or third day there
will be a food distribution which the
reality is it's you know for a family
it's a can of tuna or a can of cheese
and that's all that's coming in so you
know food insecurity um is a big problem
in the South not enough Aid is coming in
to support uh the overwhelming number of
people who are now uh seeking shelter in
Gaz in the south of Gaza okay for now
thank you Thomas White their director of
unrwa Affairs joining us live from Gaza
well let's go to Jerusalem now and speak
to our correspondent Hugo uh Bea so Hugo
uh we start a new day and once again the
truce continues which is uh the good
news for everybody waking up where you
are today and also in Gaza but the
question is what will happen today once
again a tense day ahead in terms of
Hostage uh prisoner
exchange exactly Sally and the news of
this uh extension was uh announced just
minutes uh before uh the ceasefire was
set to expire so I think it shows how
how difficult how complicated these
negotiations have been so the Israeli
Army says that this extension has been
agreed because of the efforts to secure
the release of more hostages being held
in Gaza 145 people are still in
captivity in Gaza 55 days after they
were abducted in Israel so uh
negotiations continue the US Secretary
of State Anthony blinkin is in Tel Aviv
uh he is going to have meetings and
talks uh about how to extend uh this
truths uh further and also about how to
guarantee the delivery of more Aid much
needed Aid to Gaza as a humanitarian
crisis in the territory continues and
the Israeli authorities uh have been
saying that the war against Hamas is not
over that they will resume uh the
Israeli offensive against Hamas once
this attempt temporary of pausing
hostilities is over but I think again
this shows how difficult these
negotiations have been and I think the
next phase of these talks is going to be
even more difficult because it is likely
to inv involve the first group of
Israeli military personnel who have been
abducted by Hamas so again the ceasefire
has been extended for another day but it
shows how complex the situation is yeah
and also the the the location of
hostages that are still held makes it
more complex as well Hamas talking about
logistical problems that they are facing
in terms of trying to meet the deadlines
for exchange uh it it'll be interesting
to see how today develops and those
families who are desperately waiting in
Israel for
news exactly so again 145 people are
still in captivity in Gaza and Hamas has
been saying that it is not holding all
of them and that they are having
difficulties in Loc ating uh those
hostages in identifying them so this
could be another obstacle uh before they
are released but again I think this uh
announcement today that the ceasefire
has been extended for another day is
going to be celebrated by the families
of those hostages the relatives of those
hostages waiting to see their loved ones
back yesterday we saw another group of
hostages being released 16 captives were
freed uh and returned to Israel and
again was saw uh uh 30 Palestinian
prisoners uh women and teenagers being
released from Israeli jails I think the
Israelis were expecting this kind of
mechanism uh to continue uh three
Palestinians being freed for every
Israeli hostage returned uh but again uh
it will be interesting uh to see how
these negotiations are going to un
unfold now that we it seems that we are
entering a much more difficult phase in
these negotiations okay Hugo for thank
you Hugo Bea in Jerusalem for us